AOT compilation - Compilation to browser runnable static html/css/js files from components and typescript files.

What are the advantages of angular over other frameworks?
Ans--> Angular provides certain features such as routing, state management, rxjs library and http services out of the box.
       Declarative UI- Angular uses HTML to render the UI of an application HTML is declarative and easier to use than js.
       Long term google development and maintenence support.


AOT compilation--> Angular applications need to be compiled first before running because browser does not understand 
                   templates and components. There are two types of compilation:
                   JIT and AOT
                   In JIT the the compilation happens after the app has been downloaded in the browser whereas in AOT it happens
                   in compile time leading to faster rendering.
                   Eg. ng serve --aot and ng build --aot

Components, modules and services:
        Components--> Building blocks of angular application. Consist of html template, styles and class for business logic.
        Modules--> Place to group components, directives, services and pipes. Defined with @ngModule declaration.
                   They are of two types Base module and feature module. Defines which module has access to which components.
        Services--> Services are objects which get instantiated only once during the lifecycle of an application. The main
                    objective of a service is to share data, functions to different components of an Angular application.
                    Decorated with @Injectable decorator. Any method defined within a service can be directly used within   
                    any component by just importing the service.

Life cycle hooks: Angular components have a life cycle ie different phases it goes though to the time of creation to the time
                  it gets destroyed. Angular provides hooks to tap into these and trigger changes at specific phases of the 
                  lifecycle.

Data binding:  Data binding is a feature of angular which provides a way to communicate with the component(model) and the 
               template (view). It is either one way or two way. Interpolation is one way data binding.

How are angular expressions different from js expressions?
Angular expressions can be written directly in the html. They are local scoped as opposed to global document scoped.
They do not support loops, conditionals and expressions. They support the use of pipes.

How are observables different from promises? Lazy ie. not called unless subscibed as opposed to eager. They can be
                                             cancelled using the unsubscribe method. Provides operators such as 
                                             map, filter, forEach, reduce, retry etc.
                                             Promises are always asynchronous whereas observables can be either.


What are directives in angular? A class that is declared with @Directive decorator.
                                3 types:
                                    1. Components - Directives with a view decorated with @Component.
                                    2. Structural directives used to to manipulate the dom. Start with *.
                                       Eg. *ngIf and *ngFor.
                                    3. Attribute directive used to change the look and behaviour of a dom element.

Sharing data between components in angular--> Parent to child using the @Input() decorator in child and [] in parent.
                                              Child to parent using the @ViewChild decorator:
                                                    - Access child components using the @ViewChild and @ViewChildren
                                                        inside the parent. We can reference the child and all its data
                                                        directly from the parent within the AfterViewInit life cycle hook.

                                              Child to parent using the @Output and Event Emitters

                                              Eg. @Output() dataEvent = new EventEmitter<string>();
                                                            this.dataEvent.emit(data)
                                                            This event and data is caught in the parent component
                                                            within the child component selector.




